Client Sync Data for the assistant

Introduction

Why use Client Sync

Companies using SAP need to transfer data between clients and systems for production development and support or to refresh training clients. Without an adequate transfer solution, client copies can be time consuming and require a lot of storage space. You also risk exposing sensitive data, and transactional flows may be incomplete. 

With Client Sync, you can create testing or training clients quickly and easily by selecting the time slice of data you need and/or data for certain company codes (with the option to exclude large or sensitive data sets, such as all the employee data from the HCM module). You can also decide whether or not to transfer client-independent or client-dependent customisation, authorisations, and user masters. Related transactional data can also be included so that document flows are complete. 

Client Sync not only eliminates system downtime during copies, but also ensures the integrity of the data. Additional functionality allows you to extend delivered business objects and create new customer-defined business objects. All delivered business objects adhere to the standard SAP authorisations. 

As a result, Client Sync allows you to create consistent clients easily with just the data you need, when you need it, saving time and space and thus reducing costs.

How Client Sync works

Client Sync has a highly intuitive and user-friendly GUI that helps you slice and transfer SAP application data between clients. A roadmap will lead you through the Sync or import process, allowing you to see exactly which phase you’re in.

In the process, you can use pre-defined profiles to select and mask a specific client subset and control the data transfer using various processing and scheduling options. 

You can also monitor and perform actions on currently executing Syncs in the Monitor Desk, and DSM will keep you updated via email or SMS if you set up notifications.
 
Other useful features include estimation runs (which allow you to determine how much space you need on the target client before executing the transfer) and templates (which reduce the time it takes to create a Sync). 

Client Sync has four authorisation templates to ensure stringent control and security within the product: 
	1. Administrator (who can configure the product) 
	2. Control Center Administrator (who can access the Administration Desk and Control Center) 
	3. Content Developer (who can create and enhance business objects) 
	4. User (who can execute Syncs).

For more information about authorisations see .…

For a glossary of key Client Sync concepts, refer to …

Client Sync is available for SAP® ERP (including S/4 HANA), SRM, CRM, GTS, BW, SCM, Bank Analyser and NetWeaver.


Installation of Client Sync

Overview of the installation

This document contains the installation and upgrade steps for Data Sync Manager 5 Build 222. DSM5 Build 222 is the most recent General Availability build. For details of changes included in this build, view…

Customers who installed the Controlled Availability build, DSM5 Build 221, need to update to Build 222.

Installing DSM5 Cumulative Patch 3 for Build 222: If you have not yet installed DSM5 Build 222, then please do so by following all the instructions below. 
After you have installed DSM5 Build 222:
   1. Download and import DSM5 Cumulative Patch 3 for Build 222.    2. Follow Steps 3 to 9 below.

Installation steps for new DSM5 customers

All EPI-USE Labs products make use of a generic code library shared between products and distributed as a separate Library 2 (Lib2) transport. Data Sync Manager requires the installation of this Lib2 transport as well as the DSM5 transport, on every system that it should have access to.

The transport import order should always be: 
	1. Library 2 
	2. DSM5

The latest versions of the Lib2 and DSM5 transport releases can be found on the EPI-USE Labs Client Central website. To download these from within Client Central, navigate to Workspaces > Data Sync Manager > Downloads > Data Sync Manager 5:

In the ‘Data Sync Manager 5’ folder, find and open the DSM sub-folder for the required SAP system type (ERP, ECC, SRM, CRM, NW, etc.). Then, find and open the release sub-folder matching the release of the system(s) that DSM will be installed on, e.g. for ECC6 with EhP5.

To successfully import the necessary transports, import the client-independent transports in the order specified below: 
	1. First, import the client-independent Library 2 Build x transport once into each system that you would like to update. 
	2. Then, import the client-independent DSM5 Build x transport on any client on the system. 

Please ensure that the following ‘Import Options’ are selected for both transports: 
	- Import Transport Request Again 
	- Overwrite Originals 
	- Overwrite Objects in Unconfirmed Repairs 
	- Ignore Invalid Component Version (if available)

Cumulative patches are a collection of important patches released for a specific DSM build. You need to install only the latest available cumulative patch transport, since each cumulative transport includes the content of the previous transports. Ensure that you install a cumulative patch only after installing the Library and DSM5 product transports.

Once you have downloaded and imported the latest Library 2 and DSM5 transports, you can activate your product by following these steps. When you access DSM for the first time by entering /n/use/dsm, you will first be prompted to select the version 4 or 5 of DSM you will be using from a pop-up.

Once you have selected ‘5’, your system will automatically try to load your transport and display a popup:

A “Successfully activated” message will be displayed once the activation is complete. However, if you receive the “We could not activate your product automatically” message, you’ll need to activate Data Sync Manager manually.

To activate Data Sync Manager manually, go on your client central page, download your license and upload it on the DSM5 pop up.

Authorization Template Roles
Within DSM there are some products where customers may want to ensure a segregation of duty. In these cases, there may be a ‘super user’ who can carry out all activities for that product, and then a ‘user’, ‘audit’ or other types of users whose access is more limited. The DSM5 transport includes Authorization Role Templates for each of these DSM5 product user types. The roles can be seen as Best Practice roles for organizations that are keen to take guidance from the software vendor on commonly required groupings of access and they link more specifically to the functional user types that will access the products. For some organizations the ‘super user’ role is sufficient and they will not require these other roles. For the Administration of the DSM5 product suite there are two Administrator roles and then two more limited roles that can be used to distribute responsibilities for different parts of administration to different users. There are also template roles that can be used for the system users DSM5 uses to manage the Control Center configuration distribution and the additional system users that are used to communicate between systems when data is being copied or masked.

To see the list of templates included in the transport execute transaction PFCG. Then access the ‘Utilities’ menu and select ‘Templates’ from the drop-down list. The DSM5 templates have a prefix of /USE/DM1_. The DSM5 role templates can be adopted into an existing SAP user profile with the steps below in a Dev system: 
	1. Access SAP transaction ‘PFCG’. 
	2. Create a new / role, as required. 
	3. Go to the ‘Authorizations’ tab. 
	4. Select the ‘Change Authorization Data’ option. 
	5. Choose the relevant template from the pop-up window. 
	6. Select ‘Apply Template’. 
	7. Change the authorization values according to the required security preferences described below. 
	8. Ensure that this new role is generated successfully.
	9. Transport the role to all higher systems in the landscape and assign it to the user(s).

Control Center Settings

When you try to execute any DSM transaction on a system where the Control Center has not yet been configured, it will automatically launch the DSM Administration screen and inform you that you need to complete the Control Center configuration for this system or distribute the configuration from the Controller to this system. To access DSM Administration you can either use the transaction /USE/DSM_ADMIN or use any of the other DSM transactions e.g. /USE/DSM, navigate to the Administration launchpad and select ‘Administration’.

Control Center Concepts
The ‘Landscape’ refers to systems of the same type of SAP application. For example, a CRM landscape may consist of a Development, Quality Assurance and Production systems. An ‘Environment’ is a collection of clients in one or more applications that work together. For example, a Production environment can consist of an ERP, BW and CRM systems. To set up the configuration of all the systems and their clients in their respective application landscapes we need a Controlling System (known as the Controller). The Control Center configuration will be done once on this system and then distributed across the landscapes. Typically, the Controller will be a specific client on the Production ERP system. This Controller serves as a Control Center for all the connected systems. Therefore, users are required to connect systems to the Controller.

Each system can only have one Controller. So for any sort of multi-tenant system, the clients on the system have to be in the same Control Center group.

Right-click on ‘Control Center’ to Enable or Disable a system client as the Controller. This will then ask you which RFC type you wish to use (see section 6 below).

The Controller distributes configuration to other systems. These systems are called Controlled Systems. One client from each of these systems should be registered under the Control Center. These clients are called Control Clients. Object Sync and Client Sync source clients need to communicate with target clients. DSM5 includes crossapplication support. This allows sibling clients to communicate, for example, communication between the QA ERP client 400 and the corresponding QA CRM client. The DSM Controller needs to communicate with all of these systems to update the configuration. This communication is facilitated by RFC connections.

RFC types

There are four types of RFCs (Remote Function Calls) used by the Control Center: 
	- Control Center to Control Client Communication (USE_DSM5--CC): These RFC destinations only exist on the Control Center system and connect to each Controlled System's Control Client. 
	- Control (USE_DSM5--CTRL): Control RFC destinations exist between each source and target system as well as each system within an environment. These RFC destinations are used to perform control actions, such as checking that a client exists on another system. 
	- Authentication (USE_DSM5---AUTH): These are dialog RFC connections used to check the authorization of a user performing a Sync. Authentication RFC destinations existing between each source and target system as well as each system within an environment. The RFC destinations allow for remote integration point refine settings to be set in the Object Sync User Interface as well as performing authorization checks on remote systems for the current user. 
	- Communication and data transfer (USE_DSM5---COMM): These RFCs refer to communication RFC destinations existing between each source and target system as well as each system within an environment. These RFC destinations perform data transfer for the Syncs as well as distributing the data secure mapping database. A local communication RFC is also used by Client Sync to perform post-processing. In this case, Client Sync will automatically update the users' authorization profiles in order to successfully perform the post-processing steps. 

There are different naming conventions used for the four types of RFC connections used by the Control Center. These RFCs will be created when the systems are registered or when the Control Center (CC) configuration is distributed.

The Control Center (CC) and control (CTRL) destinations use the DSM_CONTROL User unless this is changed with the profile parameter DSM/CC/CONTROL_USER (see section 3.1.2 for more details). The communication (COMM) RFC uses the DSM_COMM user unless this is changed with the profile parameter DSM/CC/TRANSFER_USER. When you first enable a system as the Controller a pop-up appears asking whether it should use Dynamic, Fixed or Manual RFCs. This will determine when and how the control and communication connections are configured. The Fixed, Dynamic and Manual RFC options are described below: 
	- Dynamic RFCs. The Control Center and Control RFC connections are created when the configuration in the Control Center is distributed. These RFC connections are retained. COMM connections are only created as needed. When a COMM connection is needed, the control connection auto-generates and sets the password for the DSM_COMM_ user. The COMM RFC is then created and used for the intended activity or function (for example, reading data from linked systems for Object Sync). After the activity is completed, the COMM RFC is deleted. A new COMM RFC with a new password is created every time a communication connection is needed and user information is encrypted before it is shared between systems.
	- Fixed RFCs. Control Center, Control and Communication RFCs are generated and retained the first time they are needed. Secure encrypted passwords are used for the communication user. 
	- Manual RFCs. This provides a list of connection RFCs that should be created via SAP transaction SM59 and the names populated inside the Control Center. This requires more configuration effort but ensures no connections or users are created automatically by the Control Center during configuration distribution. It is not recommended to use existing RFC connections but rather ones specifically created for DSM5.

In Manual RFC mode, RFCs will not be generated on the controlled systems but instead a lookup table (/USE/DC1_RFC_CFG) will be used to read the RFC mappings.


DSM_CONTROL and the DSM_COMM_<SID> users

Before setting up the Control Center and distributing the configuration to all the controlled systems, it is essential to decide which options to use for user creation. There are five (5) parameters in transaction /USE/USY2_PROFILE (EPI-USE Labs Product profile parameter editor) that must be maintained in ALL systems unless you wish to use the default configuration.

	- DSM/CC/CONTROL_USER: The default value for this parameter is DSM_CONTROL. This user is used by Control Center RFCs from the Control Center to the control client of each controlled system. It is also used by Control RFCs between systems. The user is automatically created when a system is connected in Dynamic or Fixed RFC modes. Automatic user creation can be overwritten by setting the DSM/CC/CONTROL_USER_MANUAL_CREATION profile parameter. Presently, this user will be assigned the SAP_ALL profile, which can be changed in DSM/CC/CONTROL_USER_PROFILE parameter. 
	- DSM/CC/CONTROL_USER_MANUAL_CREATION: This option determines if the control user should be generated automatically. The flag is off by default which will allow DSM to generate the control user automatically. While this might be advantageous on test systems, it could be an issue for Production systems and systems that use CUA. It is recommended to change this to an ‘X’ on Production systems and to create the user directly. 
	- DSM/CC/CONTROL_USER_PROFILE: If this parameter is blank, which is the default value, it will assign the SAP_ALL profile to the user. Again, it might be acceptable on test systems for some organizations but in Production this could be an issue. On each system, you will need to assign the Profile name that is generated with the Role created from the role template. 
	- DSM/CC/TRANSFER_USER: The transfer user is automatically created and updated when the Control Center configuration is distributed in Fixed RFC mode or when a Sync is performed in Dynamic RFC mode. The default for this parameter is DSM_COMM_. The allows visibility of which system is making a call. The username prefix can be overwritten by setting the profile parameter DSM/CC/TRANSER_USER, but the will still be added at the end. It is therefore recommended to only use a maximum of eight (8) characters for these users. The DSM_COMM_ user is generated to facilitate communication between the source and target systems as used by the Communication RFCs. For example, when ED1 reads data from CD1, the DSM_COMM_ED1 user will be visible in CD1. A dedicated user should be used in this case, because DSM5-encrypted passwords will be used, except in the case of Manual RFC mode.
	- DSM/CC/TRANSFER_USER_PROFILE: Similarly to the parameter for the DSM_CONTROL user, this parameter allows you to specify what profile should be used for the DSM_COMM* users. If it is blank, SAP_ALL will be assigned. For Object Sync and Data Secure, also note that standard SAP functional access to display the data or process the creation of it on a target system will be required. Use the Administration report ‘SAP authorizations for Objects’ if you need to see exactly which authorizations are required. However, it is recommended to assign a widereaching functional display role on the source systems and perhaps allow SAP_ALL on the target systems for Object Sync.

Generate DSM objects on active clients

DSM contains 1000+ business objects that are updated during generation to align with the installed SAP components, versions and data. You must therefore always execute this program after upgrading DSM and also after installing SAP support packs, to ensure that the product configuration remains updated.
Follow these steps on the main client only per system, for each system where DSM is installed:
	-Run transaction /n/use/dsm_admin or /n/use/dsm > select Administration.
	-Select Maintenance and Cleanup > Generation > Generate object classes.
	-Do not specify any Business Object in Selection options, to ensure that all business objects will be included. Select 'Execute in background’.

Generate Client Sync groupings and profiles on source systems clients
To generate Client Sync groupings and profiles, do the following on every on source system client:
	-Run transaction /n/use/dsm_admin.	
	-Select Maintenance and Cleanup > Generation > Generate profiles and groupings and select Execute to execute the program in the foreground. If any errors are reported, please download the message log to a .sl2 file, log a ticket on Client Central and attach the .sl2 log file.

Control Center Configuration

All the components of the Control Center that need to be configured are listed in the navigation tree on the left side of the screen. 

	1. System registration
All the systems that will be using Data Sync Manager must be registered in the Control Center on the Controller before any product configuration will be possible for the system. To register a system on the Controller, open the ‘System registration’ node in the tree on the left of the screen and select the ‘Add’ button
There are different kinds of systems: 
	- SAP systems: These are SAP ABAP based systems with DSM5 loaded. Syncs and masking may be performed on these systems. 
	- Virtual systems: These are placeholders for future SAP ABAP systems. You can add virtual systems to facilitate the mapping of RFCs and Logical Systems in the copied data. Adding virtual systems avoids the need for BDLS runs. 
	- External systems: These are non-SAP systems that connect to your SAP environments. These systems are typically connected using RFCs or HTTPS. SAP SuccessFactors is an example of an external system that connects using HTTPS. 
The SAP System will be the system type chosen most often. Click on the ‘Continue’ button to display the ‘Register SAP System’ dialog.

A ‘Control User’ (as configured in the DSM/CC/CONTROL_USER profile parameter) will be created automatically on this system by the Control Center. This user’s password will also be generated by default (Use generated password option), although you do have the option to specify a password . You need to use the ‘Specify password’ option if the manual user creation option is enabled (parameter DSM/CC/CONTROL_USER_MANUAL_CREATION) on the system being registered. 
When adding a system to the Control Center, you can either enter the system details or choose an existing locally-defined RFC destination (visible from transaction SM59) connecting to the Control Client on the system being registered The RFC provided here is only used to find the system’s information will not be used by DSM5. DSM5 will create the Control Center and Control RFC connections using this system information. 
The ‘Allow profile generation’ parameter behaves as follows: 
	- When selected: DSM5 will create the ‘Control User’ on the remote system and assign the SAP_ALL profile to the user and you have to explicitly select the option if you want DSM5 to assign SAP_ALL. 
	- When deselected: DSM5 will create the ‘Control User’ on the remote system and assign the authorization profile as specified by the DSM/CC/CONTROL_USER_PROFILE profile parameter configuration. The profile specified in the parameter needs to be in line with the applicable authorizations and policies in your organization.

Warning: The default option is deselected to avoid automatically assigning the SAP_ALL profile.

	2. Applications

It is necessary to define and maintain all your applications with their corresponding SAP application types. A typical landscape may include the following applications: ERP, HCM (ERP), SRM, CRM, SCM, and BW. Default entries are provided for convenience. This comes pre-configured so you can remove any or add new ones.

When creating a new application, specify a name and description that is appropriate for your landscape and avoids confusion. Typical application names include ERP, HCM, FI, SRM, CRM and so forth. For each application, set the application type to the appropriate SAP application or other applications such as SAP ERP, SAP SRM, SAP CRM, External Systems (SAP SuccessFactors), etc.

Keep in mind that more than one Application can belong to the same Application type. For example, Application ERP and HCM are both of Application type ‘SAP Enterprise Resource Planning’. Also remember that S/4 HANA has its own application type and should be used instead of ERP if the system is S/4.

	3. Environments
An environment is a collection of clients in one or more applications that work together. Typically, a landscape would include at least the following environments: Development, Quality Assurance, Production. For example, EDV-100 (ERP Development Client 100) and SDV-100 (SRM Development Client 100) form part of the same environment.

Default entries are provided for convenience. Delete any entries that you do not need or create any new environment.

	4. System and Client Assignment

Every client on the SAP system belongs to an environment and application. It is necessary to assign the clients on each system to the correct environment and application in the Control Center in the System and Client assignment folder.

In this step, you essentially map out the landscape where DSM5 will be used, client by client. To assign a client to an Environment, click on the ‘Create ‘ button and select the System and Client you want to assign from the drop-down lists. If the client that you want to assign does not appear in the list, select ‘New’ and specify the client ID.

It is also necessary to assign Production system clients.

Update the Description, Environment and Application as required. The Control Center will automatically populate the Application based on the selected System, but this may need to be updated for non-SAP systems.

DSM product settings 
	- Allow scenario: When selected, this permits the use of the Object Sync Scenario copy functionality into this target client. Typically, this is set on clients that are regularly refreshed with Client Sync. This option and implications should be discussed with functional super users of Object Sync before enabled. Most customers will not need to set this option for clients. 
	- Allow inplace masking: This determines whether in-place Data Secure Object or Client masking should be allowed on this client. 
	- Assignments: 
		- You need to specify Logical Systems, URLs and RFC destinations for each client if these need to be converted in Client Sync runs. 
		- The logical system for an existing system client will be automatically assigned with ‘MANDT’ in the ‘Alias’ field. The ‘MANDT’ logical system should match the logical system associated with the client in Transaction SCC4. For example, if you are setting up C3R 800, it should match SCC4 in C3R. 

The toolbar used here has the same functions as those described in the ‘System registration’ section.
	
	5. Shared folders

Some DSM products allow you to export and import data using files. The files can only be created in or accessed from the Shared folders configured in the Control Center.

To streamline your process, give each shared folder a logical name. This logical Path name e.g. SHARE FOLDER in the screenshot will be used for the Control Center configuration. For each shared folder, assign the physical paths that correspond to the logical shared folder name on each server.

A logical path is a logical name that identifies a permissible directory within DSM and has one or more physical paths assigned to it. For optimal use, it is recommended to use the same logical Path name for all systems in a specific Environment.

The toolbar used here has the same functions as those described in the ‘System registration’ section.

	6. Routes

Routes specify the path that DSM data transfers between system clients can follow. In the Routes screen, we have much more granular detail on where and how the different DSM products can send or receive data. For Object Sync there is the choice between ‘Standalone’ and ‘Distributed’ routes, determining whether partner systems will be included. The Access button allows you to assign users or user groups access to the routes.

When creating a new route, specify the Route ID and Description, select the relevant DSM product for which the route is intended and choose the ‘Sync type’ and ‘Transfer type’. Depending on the ‘Transfer type’ selected, the Route source and target parameters will differ.

Sync types: 

Standalone routes are used to move data from one client to another client. For example, from EQA-100 (ERP Quality Assurance client 100) to EDV-100 (ERP Development client 100). For a standalone route: 
 an RFC Sync can be performed from the specified source client to the specified target client.
a file export Sync can be performed from the specified source client to the specified shared folder. 
a file import Sync can be performed into the specified target client from the specified shared folder.
2)   Distributed routes are used to move data from one environment to another environment using          DSM Object Sync. For example, it allows you to move all related data from the clients included in the Quality Assurance environment to the clients included in the Development environment. For a distributed route:
	- an RFC Sync can be performed from the specified source environment to the specified target environment. An RFC Sync can be started from any of the source environment systems. 
	- a file export Sync can be performed from the specified source environment to the specified shared folder. A file export can be started from any of the source environment systems where the shared folder is also available.
	- a file import Sync can be performed into the specified target environment from the specified shared folder. A file import can be started from any of the target environment systems where the shared folder is also available.

Take note that the file export and import would each need a defined route.

Data exported with a Standalone Route cannot be imported with a Distributed Route and viceversa.

The toolbar used here has the same functions as those described in the ‘System registration’ section. There is however an additional button here: the access button. The purpose of this button is to maintain access for a specific user or specific group of users to a route.

When you define a new route, the route is not accessible to all users automatically. You need to define the Users and/or Groups that should have access to the Route. The relevant Groups are defined in the ‘Administration’ space in the User Groups utility and you need to ensure that the Users and Groups exist on the relevant system clients.

	7. Distribute configuration

This function will distribute the configuration set up in the Control Center to the other registered systems in the landscape. The distribution status and logs are also accessible here for each of the systems

To execute the distribution, click on the Distribute configuration button.

The toolbar used here has the same functions as those described in the ‘System registration’ section except for the ‘Display’ feature.
